1. Burglars beware!
go out
When someone goes out, they leave their home and go somewhere else, usually for pleasure.
•	Brian can't go out because he has to do his homework.
break in
When someone breaks in, they use force to enter a place, usually in order to steal something.
•	Thieves broke in and stole Mrs Green's diamond necklace.
set off
When you set off an alarm, you make it start to work.
•	Gillian burnt the toast and set off the smoke alarm.
run away
When you run away, you leave a place fast, usually because you are frightened.
•	Brave people stand and fight when cowards run away.


2 fire, fire!
fool around
When people fool around they behave in a silly and irresponsible way.
•	Stop fooling around and do something useful!
blaze up
When something blazes up, it starts to burn strongly.
•	We thought the fire was out but it suddenly blazed up again.
call out
When you call out the fire service, the doctor, the army, etc, you ask them to come and deal with a dangerous situation.
•	The doctor doesn't like being called out in the middle of the night.
put out
When you put out a fire or a light, you make it stop burning.
•	I used a fire extinguisher to put out the fire.

3 No ticket,	no	ride
 
put out
When you put out your hand or arm, you stretch it out.
•	Josh put out his hand and grabbed the rail to stop himself from falling.
get on
When you get on a bus , train or plane, you go inside it.
•	The bus was nearly empty when I
got on.
get out
When  you  get  somethin..g   out,  you  take  it  from inside a container.
•	We got our books out ready for the lesson.
get off
When you get off a bus, train or  plane,  you  leave it. (Note: You get off a bus, train, or plane, but you get out of a car.)
•	Ring the bell to tell the driver you want to get off.


4 feeling tired
lie down
When you lie down, you put your body flat on something.
•	The animals lie down in the long grass so that nobody can see them.
stretch out
When you stretch out, you make your body straight and long.
•	I can't stretch out in this bed. It's too short.
drop off
 
 
When you drop off,  or drop off to asleep.
 
rop off to sleep, you fall
 
•	Granddad dropped off while he was watching the television.
wake up
When something wakes you up, it makes you stop being asleep.
•	Go and wake your brother up and tell him to get ready for school.
